[DOCS-10269] Add Redact UUID in Logs guide (#28379)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/sensitive_data_scanner/guide/redact_uuids_in_logs.md

---
title: Redact Universal Unique IDs (UUIDs) in Logs
disable_toc: false
further_reading:
- link: "/security/sensitive_data_scanner/scanning_rules/custom_rules"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Regex for custom scanning rules"
---

## Overview

> This guide goes over how to create a custom scanning rule using a regular expression (regex) pattern that matches and redacts a Universally Unique Identified (UUID). For example, your organization has a UUID that is for internal identification only, and the UUID has additional information appended to it, such as the user's:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide goes over how to create a custom scanning rule using a regular expression (regex) pattern to matches and redact a Universally Unique Identified (UUID). For example, your organization might have a UUID for internal identification, with additional information appended, such as the user's:
```

- User ID
- Department code
- Status code

> If you want internal users to have access to these logs but don't want to expose the UUID and user ID, you can create a custom scanning rule to redact the information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want internal users to access these logs without exposing the UUID and user ID, you can create a custom scanning rule to redact the information.
```

## Set up a custom rule to match a UUID

For this guide, `01e2402104ca99-8641-43ba-b499-642610-0012` is the example internal identifier being used, where:

> - `01e2402104ca99-8641-43ba-b499` is the UUID.
> - `6462610` is a 6-digit value that represents the ID in byte format.
> - `0012` is A 2-digit department code and 2-digit status code of a user:
>     - `00` is used for an active user.
>     - `12` for the department code.

Reviewer: Optional formatting suggestion:

```suggestion
| Segment                    | Value                                       | Description                            |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| **UUID**                  | `01e2402104ca99-8641-43ba-b499`             | Internal unique identifier             |
| **User ID (byte format)** | `6462610`                                   | Encoded 6-digit user ID                |
| **Status Code**           | `00`                                        | Indicates active user                  |
| **Department Code**       | `12`                                        | Represents Department 12               |

```

Or another option:
```suggestion
**Example Identifier**
`01e2402104ca99-8641-43ba-b499-642610-0012`

**Breakdown**
- **UUID:** `01e2402104ca99-8641-43ba-b499` – internal unique identifier  
- **User ID (byte format):** `6462610`  
- **Department & Status Code:** `0012`  
  - `00` – Active user  
  - `12` – Department code

```

Author: Thanks for these suggestions, they are great! I like the table and would tweak the columns a bit but I'm going to keep with the current format because PM has already approved, and I'd like to just move this forward.

> In this example, you want to match the format of the example identifier (`01e2402104ca99-8641-43ba-b499-642610-0012`) and:
> - Redact the UUID, user ID, and the ID in byte format.
> - But not redact the department and status code of the user.

Reviewer: Optional suggestions for formatting.

```suggestion
In this example, you want to match and redact parts of the example identifier:`01e2402104ca99-8641-43ba-b499-642610-0012`

The goal is to:
- ✅ **Redact** the UUID, user ID, and the byte-format ID (`01e2402104ca99-8641-43ba-b499-642610`)
- ❌ **Do not redact** the department and status code (`0012`)
```

You can use the following basic regex to match the UUID and user ID that you want to redact:

```
[a-z0-9]{14}-\d{4}-[a-z0-9]{4}-[a-z0-9]{4}-\d{6}

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

This regex pattern captures:
- The 14-character alphanumeric start of the UUID
- A sequence of structured segments (`-####-####-####`)
- The 6-digit byte-format user ID

It excludes the final 4-digit department and status code, allowing that information to remain visible.

````

1. Navigate to the [Sensitive Data Scanner settings][1] page.
1. Click **Add** and select **Add Scanning Rule**.
1. Click **Custom Rule**.
1. Select the scanning group to which you want to add this rule.
1. Enter a name for the rule.
1. Select the priority you want for the rule.
1. Enter a description for the rule.
1. In the **Match conditions** section, enter `[a-z0-9]{14}-\d{4}-[a-z0-9]{4}-[a-z0-9]{4}-\d{6}` in the regex field.
    {{< img src="sensitive_data_scanner/guides/regex_text_matched.png" alt="The regex test section showing that the UUID and user ID are matched" style="width:100%;" >}}

> 1. Use a keyword dictionary to refine detection accuracy to avoid false positives. For this example, you want to match within 10 characters of the word `user`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To reduce false positives when redacting identifier, you can use a keyword dictionary. For this example, you want to match within 10 characters of the word `user`.
```

1. Enter `user` as a key word.
    1. Enter `10` for **Characters before match**.
    1. In the **Action on Match** section and for this example:
1. Select **Entire Event** for how much of the event to scan. If you have the log parsed out using the Grok Parser, you can scan by specific attributes.
    1. Select **Redact** for the action on match.
    1. Enter `[removed]` for the replacement text.
    1. Enter `matched_on:user_id` for the **Add tags** field.
1. Click **Add rule**.

If this example log, which contains the different components of the UUID, is sent to Datadog:

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
For the copy button, if they want to use this example

```json
````

Author: I don't think users will copy and paste this elsewhere so will leave as is. Thanks!

2024-11-14 14:20:22 INFO [transaction-logger] 200 OK shoe:200.000, pen:42.95. iron, 221.55, tasty-sandwich:10.95, big-coffee:11.95, user.name:fred91, user.id:01e2402104ca99-8641-43ba-b499-642610-0012, user.email:fred.jones@scooby.com function:transaction-complete.js, payment.ccn:1111-1111-1111-1111, payment.ccexp:10/30}
```

> Then the result is the `user.id` redacted and replaced with `[removed]`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `user.id` is redacted and replaced with `[removed]`:
```

{{< img src="sensitive_data_scanner/guides/redacted_log.png" alt="The log event with the UUID and user ID redacted and replaced with removed" style="width:100%;" >}}

> [1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/sensitive-data-scanner/configuration

Reviewer: Moved down to the bottom of the file

```suggestion
```
